Today's video is sponsored by bespoke post bespoke post is a monthly membership
club delivering awesome boxes of top shelf goods from under the radar brand.
Every month they introduce their members to cool new products, outdoor gear,
barware home and kitchen goods, clothing,
and more even live oysters sometimes based on a preference quiz that you fill
out.
So if you don't like oysters, don't worry than not coming your way.
It's free to join in. You can skip a month. Any time you like.
I've actually had a few boxes from them. And down right here, I have,
this was a weekend bag that I got from them, which is a really heavy,
well built. Nice high quality bit of kits. You open it up,
you pop all your stuff in there. Nice, really nice weekend bag, very goods.
Each box has at least $70 in retail value.
The cost it's only $45. The second thing I got from them was this, uh,
spirit agent, kid. And I thought it was for whiskey at first,
but actually you don't put whiskey in there.
So what I'm gonna do is put gin in here. This isn't OK.
I think they call it a sta and it's char.
And basically I just got this the other day. So when I a chance to do this yet,
but I'm popping some gin in there. It apparently ages,
it beautifully takes about 10 days.
And then you have a whole different flavor profile on your spirit,
which is fantastic. Plus two glasses like this here. Doesn't love that.
And if you don't like the box,
they send you feel free to swap it for one of their many, many other boxes.
The box line is constantly changing each month, so it can be great for you,
but it's also great as a gift for, for a loved one. Right now,
you guys can get 20% off your first box by going to BSP K me slash
biographics 20,
or just click the link in the description below and enter biographics 20 at
checkout. And let's get into today's video.
Our 390 BC,
the Roman Republic fought a Gaelic tribe called theones led by chief
Tae, named Brene who had invaded Italy.
The conflicts culminated at the battle of a river where the Romans suffered a
crushing defeat. Afterwards,
the GOs marched on Rome itself and sacked the city plundering its riches burning
down its buildings and killing or enslaving its citizens. Although humiliating.
This was not a shocking outcome.
The Roman Republic was still in its infancy and did not even have full control
over Italy yet.
And it was far from the Imperial powerhouse that it would turn into over the
coming centuries,
despite the Acking Rome flourished and continued to grow the Republic collapsed
and made way for the rise of the Roman empire,
which became even at the height of its power. It stretched over half of Europe,
plus parts of Africa and Asia.
The sacking of Rome from three 90 BC was a distant memory.
And the idea that it could ever happen again was unthinkable,
but then came alls the first king of a Gothic people known as the Visigoths in
410 80 here at Rome is mercy. 800 years had passed, but the UN happened again.
Rome was sacked.
This was a clear sign that the Western Roman and empire could no longer be
saved. It collapsed that same century.
Thanks in no small parts of the actions of the vis Garth led by king. I
Unsurprisingly A's early history is full of gaps and all the things we do know
have to be taken with a grain of salt. We don't know his year of birth,
but it is estimated to be sometime around 370 80,
given his age when sacked Rome, we don't know his place of birth either,
but ancient historian said it was pew island,
a location that supposedly existed during ancient times in the Dan Delta
in modern day Romania. And what was known back then as SI minor,
all origins are just as murky. He was a goth that much we can say,
but we are unsure of the tribe that he was a part of the goths were a loose
coalition of Germanic ball that shared a culture and a language,
but maintains their own territory and were each led by a different chief TA to
make matters, more confusing.
Most ancient Roman and Greek sources usually didn't bother to distinguish
between different tribes and just called them all goths or barbarians during
all time.
The two biggest groups were the VEI and the group sungi and he was most
likely a part of the former. In fact,
one of the main ancient sources on ER historian named Jordans claims that
the future king was part of a ruling dynasty called Bolty,
which was apparently among the most noble families of the goth. Second,
only to the Amali dynasty.
This same point of view is promoted by 80 century historian,
Edward Gibbon in his seminal work on the history of Rome,
which we will also be using as a main source today.
Whatever his heritage might have been alre grew up at a time of conflict.
One of the many great Gothic wars that occurred between the Germanic tribes and
the Roman empire on this occasion,
they were threatened by an even bigger danger coming from the east pillar,
all the sediments, unfortunate enough to be in their way,
this left the goths with little choice,
but to enter Roman territory and ask for permission to settle inside the empire.
At first, there was a reluctant agreement between the two sides,
mainly because the Eastern Roman emperor valance was busy,
getting ready to go to Persia and didn't want other distractions,
but neither side was truly happy with the situation. So inevitably,
a warrior erupted in 376 ad was the goth led by a Sian chief name
named Fregon.
The conflict took a significant turn following the battle of Adrian Opal in 378
ad, which not only ended with a decisive Gothic victory,
but also led to the death of two thirds of the Roman army,
including an surveillance even so Fri gun.
And the goths were unable to capitalize on their success. Following the battle.
They tried to take the city,
but their attempt failed because they lacked any siege weaponry to break down
the walls. The war carried on for a few more years,
without any more significant battles until the new emperor see dos.
The first negotiated a piece where the goths received an exchange for service in
the Roman military as auxiliary units,
this kind of treaty was called a photos while the people bounds by it,
who weren't Romans were known as prate and were not considered Roman citizens
afterwards, UR,
the other Gothic leaders disappear from the historical record and their fate
remain unknown.
This situation was relatively peaceful for the next decade and a half the goths
and the Romans weren't exactly friendly with each other,
but they weren't hostile either as both sides held up their ends of the bargain.
It's also around this time that we start seeing mentions of Visigoths and Astra
goths instead of Thue and grungy we're the former,
the descendants of the latter role,
simply two sets of names for the same people. Well,
it's hard to say Casie Doris seems to be the first one to record the terms BIS
goths and as ATHS,
which was meant to distinguish between the Western and Eastern groups of photo
Arti,
but whether or not they correspond to exactly to the th of Ingi and sungi or
whether they were an amalgamation of previous tribes is uncertain.
What we do know is that by the time LA came to power,
it was called king of the vis Garth term,
which the goths eventually adopted them Alps. Anyway,
when he grew up a LA entered military service serving under a commander named
Guyers,
who was himself of Gothic heritage Ember Theodosia soon required his new army
as he was forced to wage war against the Western Roman em empire in order to
stop a Serpa from claiming his throne in 392 80,
the Western Roman emperor Valenti thei died, found hang in his own home.
Although his death was ostensibly declared a suicide,
many sources reported that he had been murdered by an officer named AAST
agast was a man who wielded great power and influence in Valenti's courts,
but fears that he was going to lose it all after an argument with the emperor,
therefore he had Valenti killed and using his authority,
had a man named Eugen declares the new ruler of the Western Roman empire.
Although he clearly would've been simply a puppet figure while Arba Gast held
the true power. Theodosius had no intention of letting Eugen take the throne.
So Hema,
a large army and Annes met his enemies at the battle of Fri us in September 394
80, the fight ended in a bloody,
but decisive the for Theo dose who had no reservation about using his
auxiliaries as cannon fodder.
When they took the enemy camp Eugenius was captured and beheaded. Meanwhile,
Arbi gas managed to escape, but committed suicide.
A few days later when he entered Rome,
Theodosius named his young son Anor as the new Western Roman and
emperor and named his trusted general still G as his and the guy
who'd actually make the important decisions without settled.
Theodosius set to return to constant, to noble,
but died on the way his oldest son Arcadia succeeded him as ruler of the Eastern
half of the empire.
This was the start of a period of serious instability for the Roman empire one,
from which it never truly recovered,
both Anor and Arcadia were young and in exp SCRs who were easily
controlled by other people, such as still and,
and other statesmen named Rus,
but they had an even bigger problem on their hands.
As the Goffs were no longer happy with their arrangements.
By the time of the battle of fried us all was in commands of the Gothic troops,
but he felt that they had not been rewarded justly for the sacrifice of his
people. His men Bo the brunt of the attack,
and he had lost thousands of soldiers for which he only received pittance from
the emperor.
Theodosius the fact of the matter was that heavy Gothic casualties worked out in
the Romans favors since he meant fewer enemies to fight should the two who signs
ever come to blows a gang. This wasn't good enough anymore.
So all now recognized as king of the VI goths rebelled against the Romans,
according to ancient historians ness all did this with the encouragement of Ru
iners, who was the defacto ruler of the Eastern Roman embar,
even though Arcadia sat on the throne.
This was because Rus knew that the goths would plunder.
The Western half was controlled by his arch enemy, still show.
And even if Al failed,
he might have weakened still show enough for him to then swoop in and assume
control of the entire empire things didn't really turn out as either Al or Rus
hoped the Gulf wents on a pillaging campaign through Greece targeting Macedonia
ly and the Mar league Al wanted to take Athens.
But when he arrived at the city war,
he was all struck by the beauty of this ancient city and decided against it.
He asked for entry under peaceful terms,
which was granted to him and a small number of his troops.
And he enjoyed the greatest hospitality in the city.
He departed without any violence.
This however was not the case with the rest of Greece as Magars Corinth, Argos,
and even Sparta fell under the Gothic wrath,
eventually still a show gathered his troops and went to deal with all,
we're not sure on the details,
but it seems like still a show had trapped the goths and would've been able to
wipe them out completely, if not for the intervention of Rus,
he persuaded emperor Arcadia to order St. Aro to return part of his army,
which came from the Eastern remin, em empire, still show obey,
but also sent some mercenaries who struck down Ru when the opportunity presented
itself escaping with his head while singing songs of triumph,
Reus was gone,
but he was simply replaced with another official named utopia who manipulated
the naive emperor for his own games.
He also opposed still a so the situation was very much the same as before.
Meanwhile, the Romans also had to deal with the picks in Britain,
other Germanic tribes,
such as the vandals and the suey plus the impending danger posed by the Huns.
In other words, there had a lot on their plate.
So the vis Garth went exactly a high priority after all the goths didn't attack
with any grand ambitions of taking down the empire or conquering a province or
anything like that, they just wanted a fair treaty with the Romans,
the emperor placated them, which ended all's first invasion in 397 ad.
We're not sure about the terms,
although some sources claim that all was given the title of Machester Milam in
the province of lyric, this pacifies the Visigoths for a few years,
but in 401 80, they decided to attack this time, invading Italy directly.
Initially this put the Western Roman empire in a very precarious position
because it had very few troops in Italy itself. Instead,
still a show had to travel to the province of Russia to raise an army,
and then to Goul where he persuaded another dramatic tribe known as the Aman to
join his ranks. Meanwhile,
all Rick and his army were nearing media LAN known today as Milan,
which was the new capital of the Western Roman empire and the place where
Ember Onor was eagerly, awaiting reinforcements. Edward Gibb mentions that St.
Joe more or less had to leave Goul and the German provinces almost done defended
in order to secure the forces necessary to defeat allure,
a sign of the decline of the Roman empire that had been decay by centuries and
centuries of fighting to preserve its borders.
GI also speculates that SIL show was banking on heavy rains and melting snows,
Towell up the rivers, thus slowing down the vis goths.
But the opposite happened a very dry season meant that rivers were quite shallow
and easy to traverse. So the goths arrived as media Lanham. Well, before him,
as all approached the rules of the capital,
he saw honors accompanied by a feeble train of statesman and Unix retreating
toward the abs, which filled them with the satisfaction of seeing the Roman em,
flee before him with the goths on his tail honors at no other option,
except to take refuge inside a fortified city in Lauria and hope that still a
show arrived in time. Fortunately for him, that's exactly what happened.
All laid siege,
but still a show when his army arrived forcing regards to retreat Westwood to
the city of Poncia known today,
as Lenzo the conflict dominated with the battle of PIO,
which quite controversially took play on April the sixth 400 to a D Easter
day.
So the show was counting on the facts that the goths who were mostly Christian
by this point would be busy with celebrations on that day.
So he sent an army led by one of his most trusted general Saul,
who wasn't Christian to launch a surprise attack.
This didn't quite have the desired effect because all defeated Saul,
thus forcing, still show himself to lead the charge with his remaining troops.
He defeated the goths and managed to recover most of the loot that they had
plunged. Plus thousands of captives who had been taken as slaves.
This was not the ends of the invasion because although all Rick had lost most of
his infantry, his Calvary was still intact. So he decided to keep going,
determined to conquer or die before the gates of Rome. So the show, however,
coming and had managed to intercept the vis goths and the two sides fought ones
more outside the city of AONA the Roman general one again, and this time, ER,
had been soundly defeated yet still the vis goth survived because the Romans
considered it better for them to strike a deal rather than to destroy them.
It is likely that still show developed a respect for ER's determination and his
skill. And he,
he considered him useful since the Statesman's greatest ambition was to unite
the two HARs of the Roman empire under his rule.
One thing that Alex invasion did accomplish was to show the world how vulnerable
media Lanham was after the war concluded an Aus moved the capital city to
Ravo, which was better fortified.
And it remained the capital until the collapse of the Western Roman,
Whatever planned still show had for the Eastern Roman empire.
They had to wait since he was now faced with a new enemy.
Many Germanic tribes had United under a king named Ratta geese.
And this included some of A's troops who had lost faith in him following his
successive defeats described by historian AIAS as the most Savage of all our
enemies.
Ratta geese was a pagan and Ayan who had vowed to spill all the Roman
blood as an offering to his gods. Still show was once again,
task with eliminate this new threat. The Roman general was outnumbered,
but fortunately for him,
RA geese had decided to split his army into three parts.
Two of them were sent on rating missions while the bulk of the army accompanied
him as he laid siege on Florence,
still a choke decided on a big surprise attack, which overwhelm his enemies,
forcing them to lift their siege and retreat toy Sui there at battle took place
in August 400, 6 80,
which resulted in a decisive Roman victory and the execution of rat ISIS.
One man's loss was another man's gain.
As many of the surviving goths returned to allure who was steadily rebuilding
his army even. So he was not ready to invade Italy again,
as he was still waiting for still a show to enact his plan against the Eastern
Roman empire. The general was delayed once again, however,
due to the emergence of a new pretender to the Western throne,
his name was Constantine. The third,
he was declared the new emperor by his troops, following his tribes in Britain.
He then established himself in GA fully intending to cross into Italy and depose
an Orus,
which obviously would've meant that still a show had to go as well in 407 80,
all decided that he had wait in Hans demanded from still showed the payments,
which was promised in exchange for his assistance against the Eastern empire,
allegedly this amounted to 4,000 pounds of gold.
So the show tried to persuade the Senate to agree to the payment.
He found the terms much too costly, deeming it, not a treaty of peace,
but of servitude.
The Stiller chose reputation within the Western empire took a serious hit.
When the Eastern REM emperor Arcadia died,
an enemy of still show named Olympus started spreading a rumor that stich show
used the money as a bribe intending to use the VI goths to March on constant and
noble and install his own son UCAR as the new emperor. Indeed,
this might not have been that far from the truth,
but it certainly was believable enough that Anor set still. The show arrested.
The Roman general was executed on August the 22nd, 408,
and his son soon followed the Romans might have eliminated one internal threats,
but now the man who twice managed to save the Western Roman empire from Errick
was dead,
Was chose demise. Olympus became one of the emperor's most trusted advisors,
and he took a much more aggressive stance against the goths,
even the Pari who were technically on his site at one point,
Olympus orchestrated a purge and massacre, thousands of Gothic families,
mainly women and children who had settled on Roman land. Obviously this enraged,
their husbands, most of whom had been part of stich show's army.
So they defected Alec ready to enact vengeance on the Roman embar estimates say
that this caused anywhere from 10,000 to 30,000 soldiers to switch sides.
Since Olympus considered Eck, a former ally, still a show,
he was declared an enemy of Rome, but this suited interest fine.
It was clear that he was not going to receive what had been promised to him.
And he now had a large army out for Roman blood to nobody surprised just a few
months later after still have Joe's death.
The vis goths attacked the Western Roman empire. Again,
many cities fell before the might of a, but not Raven.
Instead a marched on Rome considering to be a preferable target in September
hundred, eight 80 without encountering a single army.
The Visigoths arrived at the gates of the eternal city and laid siege.
The Roman ability first reacted with indignation and in incredulity,
how dare a barbarian salt Roman, such a way, but as time went on with supplies,
dwindling and no reinforcement in sight, those feelings turned to fear, panic,
an anger. Their first reaction was to execute Serena the widow of St.
Acho for allegedly conspiring with the goths, shockingly,
this didn't solve anything. And Rome soon fell preyed.
A famine as described by Edward,
given a dark suspicion was entertained that some desperate retches fed on the
bodies of their fellow creatures, whom they had secretly murdered.
Many thousand of inhabitants of Rome expired in their houses or in the streets
for want of sustenance.
The stent witch arose from so many PNS unburied carcasses infected the air and
the misery of famine were succeeded and aggravated by the contagion of a pal
disease. Only after realizing that there was no help from Rav forthcoming,
did the Romans admit that they were at the mercy of ball, they sent Aries,
but even then they still refused to submit to the Bob Arians.
They warn Alrick that the terms of their capitulation were not fair.
Then they would sound the trumpets causing an innumerable.
People exercised in arms and animated by despair to come to battle.
It was a very poor bluff since the goths knew that most of the people in Rome
were too to stand up straight, let alone fight and reply to this threat.
All toted them by saying the thick of the hay, the easier it is mowed.
Eventually some actual negotiations were carried out and an agreement was
reached. Ball received 5,000 pounds of gold, 30,000 pounds of silver,
4,000 silk robs, 3000 pieces of fine cloth and 3000 pounds of pepper.
The vis goths lifted thes return to Tuscany where they made camp for Windsor
during which they even received reinforcement both in the form of escaped slaves
and dramatic soldiers, despite his successes,
all didn't want to spend the rest of his life rating, Roman cities.
So he sent word to Ravina with an offer of peace.
He asked for several Roman provinces to settle plus annual donations of golden
corn. While all would've been made a commander by this point,
Olympians had fallen outta favor at the Roman court replaced by the Pretorian
preface. Jovia who,
although not a friend of the goth sat the sense to realize that they were too
powerful to stop. He encouraged an nos to accept the deal,
but the emperor made a counteroffer.
He agreed to the provinces and the donations,
but refused to bestow any kind of title or honor on ER or any of his family
members, unsurprisingly,
the king of the Bissy GOs considered this a great insult.
So he sat out for Rome once again on his way there,
he had a change of heart and instead Besie the port city of Austria,
which little means to defend itself against a path alarm and fell within days
afterwards, Anne Eric placed a blockade on the port,
thus stopping crucial food shipments to other cities.
He renewed his offer ever improving the terms.
Now he just wanted the province of nor and just a donation of corn. Nevermind.
The gold, this offer was also refused. And in fact,
ans made all his close officials swear and oath that they would never deal with
the vis off king
Since there was no dealing with on Orus all had a new strategy.
Usurp is throne, therefore in 409 80,
he again be proceeded Rome instead of starving them.
This time he led an embassy into the city,
went to the Senate and told them to declare AFE named Pritzkers Atlas as the new
emperor, since the senators were partly in a position to refuse,
they did as instructed and Atlas was named the new emperor of the Western Roman
M empire. His reign was brief though,
as a suit had by remorse as S almost immediately proved himself to be an
arrogant and incompetent lead. After a few months,
he lost the support of ER in the Senate in front of a large crown,
the OV king tripped ATS of his purple robes and his Daddo,
which were his symbols of royalty and send them to an Orus who was hold up in
Ravner in hopes of opening negotiations. Again,
now something strange happens when he was just a few miles from RA all received
words that another Gothic chief day named SARS was at the Empress court.
Not only that, but has men had even attacked one of his forward parties.
The exact reason for SAS's actions are unclear that the point is that he was
A's lifelong enemy.
When the king of the vis gods found that he was working for an Orus and that the
two possibly conspired against him.
He finally abandoned any hope of negotiation. And once again,
Rome had to pay the price for rabbis Folley Al laid see John for
a third and final time.
This one did not last long because somebody opens the Solarian gate for him one
night, therefore on August the 24th,
the goth centered Romans for the first time in 800 years,
the city fell to a foreign enemy.
What followed was three days of looting destruction and murder.
As the goths made off with all the valuables that they could carry.
There is a story shared by the historian. Procop about An's reaction.
When he heard of the sacking of Rome,
one of the emperor's UN entered his James bison told an Aus that Roman perished
the emperor was shocked saying that he had just fed him by hand.
The UN realized that anus thought that one of his favorite roosters who was
named Roman died when the Emper discovered that the servant meant the city of
Rome, not his chicken. He breathed to SI relief.
The story is most likely apocryphal,
but it was indicative of the Roman people's opinion of an or who proved himself
to be both incompetent and completely clueless.
When it came to the actual state of his empire, as for all,
he didn't live long enough to enjoy his PLS up.
He took his goths into Southern Italy with the engine of eventually going to
Africa. However, he was stricken by a short illness and died quickly.
That same year, according to legend,
he was buried in a river bed with all of his greatest treasures where he might
still rest today.
His actions placed the Western room and empire on an unavoidable course of self
destruction. Just decades later,
it would fall and be replaced by many new kingdoms,
including one belonging to the vis goths who would go on to occupy most of the
Iberian peninsula and Southern go. So I really hope you found that video.
Interesting. If you did, please do hit that thumbs up bottom below.
Don't forget to subscribe and thank you for watching.